men, ys, a danger of Servin, the Kings Attorney. He ys a Catholique,
but a french Catholique. And, Sr, french-papistry, ys but like french
veluet: a prety slack Religion that would soone wear owt; and not
of the three-piled papistry of Italy and Spayne. As he doth, in all
such occasions, so in thys last Arrest wch concernd the Iesuits, he
used much vehemency against them. And though upon ye Iesuite
Cotton hys importunity, Servin and ye Iudge, (that ys ye president)
beeinge contracted by the Q: Regent, gaue so good a iustificatio
of all that they had donne in that pleadinge, and that Arrest, a-
gainst ye Iesuits, that shee then seemed then to desist from hear
movinge any modification of ye arrest, yet a Cardinall hath
since that tyme told Servin, that hys best way ys, to dispatche
himselfe of yt place. wch he vnderstands for a liberty to sell
ytt, or a warninge that otherwayese he may loose all. So yt, sr,
as I sayd at first, all that directly or obliquely might succor ye
Religion, suffer great diminutions. The Edict against Duells
hath been lately infringed much. And wyll be oftner, if the Q:
be not severe in the observinge of it; by reason of the very many,
and very different sortes of people at thys tyme, at paris. Two or
three haue been committed for ye breach of yt, and remaine so; but
as yet I haue heard of no seuerer prosecution. I beseech yow ꝑ-
sent my humble thanks and services, where yw know they are due.
I should not haue forborne to haue written to sr Th: Grymes, if
thys place gaue any thinge wch he desird to know. To hym and to
hys lady, I ame bound to do better offices, then words and letters
are, if my fortune could expresse yt. When there ys any way
open to yow, to send into the wight, I pray giue thys letter a pas=
sage. If one could not gett to that Ile, but by the northwest
discouery, I ^could not thinke the returns so difficult and dilatory. for yet
I haue had no returne from thence of any letter, since my com-
minge out of England. and thye thys silence, especially at thys tyme,
when I make account that yor sister ys near her paynfull and dange=
rous passadge, doth somewhat more affect mee, then I had thought
any thinge of thys world could haue donne. Good sr, if ꝑchance any
letter come to yow from thence, do me the fauer to send yt to Mr Iohn
Bruer, at ye Q: armes, a Mercer in chepside, [◇] [◇] any
thinge wyll safely be brought to yr Affectionate frinde & servant

	Amyens.7.Febru: here.
	i6ii.
	I: Donne




